---
layout: post
title:      "Becoming a Software Engineer"
date:       2020-04-19 20:39:24 +0000
permalink:  becoming_a_software_engineer
---


**Why I decided to pursue a Software Engineering Career. **


For an extremely long time, maybe my entire life, I've had a dream to be a Video Game Designer. Video Games for me have always been not only just a hobby that I enjoy immensely, but also an escape from the everyday, at least for a little while. After a long day to decompress, even if it's just an hour of game time it's a relief, because for that hour I'm not worried about or thinking about what happened during the day. It becomes just me and the world that I've been immersed into, whether it’s a FPS (First Person Shooter) game or an RPG (Role Playing Game) or even a game where you control a car in the middle of a soccer field playing with an oversized soccer ball. When I play games now, whether it be Assassin's Creed (the newest game I started) or Call of Duty, in my head I'm starting to visualize the kind of code that was built to create a certain event. For example, when I play AC (Assassin's Creed) and I go to turn in a quest that I have completed, I'm thinking, "This could be written as an if/else statement." `**If **I have the required tasks completed for the quest it’s going to return the completed process. **Else** tasks haven't been completed it will return the list of tasks that are needed left to complete`. To be completely honest, it feels pretty cool that I'm starting to look at video games that way because that means I must be grasping the concept of programming, maybe, just maybe. It might be a little more complicated than that to build a video game but it's the concept.

Another thing that I realized as I embarked on this Software Engineering Journey was that coding was challenging, and I very much like challenging. Every code is like a new puzzle to figure out and solve, there's always more that you can learn. Creating code to manipulate or create something, and making sure that everything is working together, making sure all the puzzle pieces fit together just right. With the amount of information that's out there about coding in general, no matter the language, there is always something new to learn and I genuinely enjoy that, because it now becomes a never-ending game of trying to master as many different skills as possible. So, it’s a challenging game that never ends, for someone that enjoys video games this is a perfect combination. But you still need a game to be fun, and I can honestly say that "Yes" I've struggled through some of the lessons and spent way too much time on some of them than I should have. At the same time, I had fun trying to dig back into my notes and trying to find different ways around certain problems to get the same outcome. When you finally get the code done and its working correctly and the way you want it to work it really is such a rewarding feeling and makes all the time you put in worth it.

The end goal to why I decided to become a Software Engineer was and still is to work my way into the Video Game Industry. I want to be part of a team that's creating the newest game that is going to be coming out to the market. Be someone on the developing end of that game that all the gamers are talking about and enjoying so much. Because it's not just about creating fun games but it comes down to creating amazing virtual escapes for others, to provide others with that same opportunity that gaming does for me, and it's to create that escape. One week into the bootcamp and I can say that what I thought used to be something that would be impossible to achieve is not only achievable (with a lot of hard work) but that it's fun and it's challenging and I can't wait to see what new things I will learn every day.

